## DENOTER: Dual cascadEd iNformatiOn filTERing for robust sequential recommendation

### Abstract
Sequential recommendation aims to predict users' next likely interactions by analyzing historical sequences of their behaviors. However, such systems are vulnerable to adversarial attacks that disrupt input sequences through the injection of targeted noise and/or irrelevant interactions. To address this challenge, we introduce **D**ual cascad**E**d i**N**formati**O**n fil**TER**ing (**DENOTER**), a robust sequential recommendation method designed to mitigate the impact of adversarial attacks. 
Unlike existing recommendation methods, which frequently overlook the varying importance of components (\ie, items and associated features) within behavior sequences, DENOTER employs a two-tiered adaptive filtering mechanism to dynamically prioritize these components. At the *feature* level, a dimension-adjustable, forward-only diffusion model is introduced to dynamically select and preserve essential features, effectively filtering out malicious embedding perturbations. At the *item* level, a Gumbel-driven sampling strategy is leveraged to selectively retain salient items. Through the multi-layer refinement with alternating feature- and item-level filtering, DENOTER progressively reduces the influence of adversarially perturbed items and features in input sequences, enabling robust recommendation without specialized data augmentation or model retraining. 
Extensive empirical evaluations on five datasets with four different encoders demonstrate that DENOTER consistently outperforms existing baselines under diverse adversarial conditions, achieving superior robustness and stable recommendation accuracy, even in low-resource and out-of-domain settings.
